Swarming - FAQ (#4471)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Functionality/Swarming/SwarmingFAQ.md

---
uid: SwarmingFAQ
---

# Frequently asked questions

## Can I swarm X/Y/Z?

Swarming will gradually become available for more and more functionality in DataMiner.

As of DataMiner 10.5.1, only basic elements are supported.

For a list of upcoming features, see [Upcoming features](xref:Swarming#upcoming-features).

## Does the ID of an element change when it is swarmed?

No, the identifier (DataMiner ID/element ID) of an element that is swarmed stays the same.

Each element also stores where it is hosted, and that "Host ID" field is updated when the element is swarmed.

> ## What does the **DataMinerID** mean of an element that swarmed?

Reviewer: I think this explanation might be taking us a bit too far, and could potentially cause more confusion than anything else, because the ElementID alone hasn't been used for a very, very long time, and the DataMiner ID hasn't been fixed to the hosting Agent since DataMiner 8.5, when DELT was introduced. I think it might be better to just combine the info from this question (in a slightly shorter form) with the one above, and explain that the DataMiner ID refers to the Agent where the element was originally created instead of the hosting Agent.

Author: You are right but I added this because we have gotten his exact question multiple times. From internal and external people.

Its just an overal confusing topic, but in my opinion the best way to understand the current situation is to understand how we got here through the historical evolution.

However, I may be biased as only the very technical questions get through to us, so a more digestable format might be preferred for docs.

However, once clusters of agents were created, these were no longer unique in the whole DMS, so the **DataMinerID** was added to the element identifier, which now consists of 2 number often shown as **DataMinerID/ElementID**.

You can see this identifier when you right click your element and open *properties*.

![What does the DataMinerID of an element mean](~/user-guide/images/Swarming_FAQ_DataMinerID.png)

To find the agent that was hosting the element, that same **DataMinerID** was used.
However this no longer works when swarming the element.
To keep the identifier unique in the DMS this **DataMinerID** cannot change.

To see the agent hosting the element in DataMiner Cube, you can click a parent view and scroll to the right until you see the **HOST ID** and **DATAMINER** column for the element.

Example below (with columns reordered for convenience):

![Hosting Agent in Cube](~/user-guide/images/Swarming_FAQ_HostingAgentCube.png)

To figure out the agent hosting the element in code, you can use the **HostingAgentID** property instead.

## Can I block an element from being swarmed?

> Not in the initial release but is expected to be available in DataMiner 10.5.5/10.6.0.

Reviewer: Is it certain that this feature will be available in DataMiner 10.5.5/10.6.0? If not, it might be better if we don't mention the version yet, as we may forget to update it when this changes. Or if it is certain, to make this more future-proof, I'd adjust it to:
```suggestion
This feature is available from DataMiner 10.5.5/10.6.0 onwards.
```

Author: The feature is ready but still going through validation, so not officially available yet in RC.
I do expect it to be in time for the seal next week, but we can leave it out for now and we'll update it once we merged it in. That we there's no real harm if we forget.

## What happens with my Elements folder on disk?

When swarming is not enabled, the configuration of an element is stored in an [XML file on the DataMiner server](xref:Elements1).

In order for Swarming to work, every Agent needs to be able to access all data of an element, including its configuration. For this reason, the configuration is moved to the shared database instead. This data migration happens automatically during DataMiner startup after you enable Swarming.

## How does the element license work?

Enabling Swarming does not affect the licensing for elements.

> There is still a limit in play per agent and you cannot swarm elements to go over it.
> Once you swarm an element over and the limit is reached, it will move over, but not start up.
> 
> This is the same behavior as if you would have created a new element instead.

Reviewer: To my knowledge, this is only the case with perpetual-use licenses, but not if DataMiner is deployed in subscription mode. I'd therefore change this as follows:
```suggestion
If you have a perpetual-use license, there is a limit to how many elements can be added per Agent. If you swarm an element and this causes the element limit of an Agent to be exceeded, the element will not start up. This is the same behavior as when you go over the element limit by manually creating a new element.
```

Author: Yes thank you, good catch.

---
uid: SwarmingFAQ
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

> ## Can I Swarm X/Y/Z?

Reviewer 2: Do we have to write Swarm with a capital?
(Same further down for "Swarmed" and "when Swarming an element")

Reviewer: The feature "Swarming" gets a capital, but if you're referring to the action, no capital should be used.

Author: Done

Swarming will gradually become available for more and more functionality in DataMiner.

> As of DataMiner 10.5.1, only basic elements are supported.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Advanced_Functionality/Swarming/Swarming.html#upcoming-features instead?

Author: Done

## Does the ID of an element change when it is Swarmed?

> No, the identifier of the element stays the same.

Reviewer 2: Maybe an example of an identifier "123/456" and where you could see or have to use that reference

Or to the question on DataMinerID below

Author: redirected to the next question instead

Each element also stores where it is hosted, that field is updated when Swarmed.

## Can I block an element from Swarming?

Not in the initial release but is expected to be available in DataMiner 10.5.5/10.6.0.

> ## What does the **DataMinerID** mean of an element that Swarmed?

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is clear enough. I had some trouble reading this but maybe I have been used to using the dmaid/eid identifier pair for too long

Author: Not sure, it is confusing to explain. I'll see what docs team has to say. We are very biased here

The meaning of a **DataMinerID** has slightly changed in a Swarming DMS.

It used to be that every element has an **ElementID** that uniquely identifies it on a DataMiner agent.
However, once clusters of agents were created, these were no longer unique in the whole DMS, so the **DataMinerID** was added to the element identifier, which now consists of 2 number often shown as **DataMinerID/ElementID**.

![What does the DataMinerID of an element mean](~/user-guide/images/Swarming_FAQ_DataMinerID.png)

To find the agent that was hosting the element, that same **DataMinerID** was used.
However this no longer works when Swarming the element.
To keep the identifier unique in the DMS this **DataMinerID** cannot change.

To see the agent hosting the element in DataMiner Cube, you can click a parent view and scroll to the right until you see the **HOST ID** and **DATAMINER** column for the element.

Example below (with columns reordered for convenience):

![Hosting Agent in Cube](~/user-guide/images/Swarming_FAQ_HostingAgentCube.png)

To figure out the agent hosting the element in code, you can use the **HostingAgentID** property instead.

## What happens with my Elements folder on disk?

> The configuration of an element used to be stored in an XML file on disk.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a reference to "C:\Skyline DataMiner\Elements", or just link here: https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Reference/Skyline_DataMiner_Folder/More_information_on_certain_files_and_folders/Elements1.html#elements

Author: Done

In order for Swarming to work, every agent needs to be able to access all data of an element, including its configuration.
For that reason the configuration has been moved to the shared database instead.
This data migration happens automatically during DataMiner startup.

Note that this only happens if you enable Swarming, otherwise nothing is changed.

## How does the element license work?

Licensing is unchanged for elements.

There is still a limit in play per agent and you cannot Swarm elements to go over it.
Once you Swarm an element over and the limit is reached, it will move over, but not start up.

This is the same behavior as if you would have created a new element instead.

> Note that the Swarming request will return as a failure if this happens.

Reviewer 2: I believe at that point the host of the element has already been updated and that the element has been unloaded already on the agent where it was originally hosted

Author: did mention it in the beginning of this answer but repeated it again
